how to keep your dog safe while surfing
so you decided to teach your dog to
shoot the curl awesome but before the
pooch is riding giants like a
four-legged Laird Hamilton there are a
few things you need to remember we've
asked buddy the surfing dog to show us
how to stay safe while hanging 20 step 1
ease into it Kahuna before stepping into
liquid with your furry bud make sure
that the dog is comfortable in the water
don't want to put the dog in danger you
don't want to start off too fast you
know you need to be a good swimmer and
if you scare the dog you're gonna lose
them right away step 2 pause for effect
your dog needs to be standing properly
on the board or it will totally wipe out
so what we do is we get him about
two-thirds of the way back on the board
get them centered you want them right
about here step 3 keep fido mellow gets
pretty pretty amped up out there pretty
nervous at time so you know I have to
say you're okay and if I usually say
here we go he'll start barking but he
anticipates the waves you can see the
waves coming and he actually gets a
little nervous gets excited starts
yapping it gets back to trust with a dog
and through trial and error the dogs
really learned what he thinks he can
make in a wave and what he cannot make
which is really interesting step 4 hang
with the right pack choose a beach where
there won't be lots of distractions for
the dog and where the other surfers
won't bug out we tend to hang out with a
long borders which happens to be more of
a mellow crowd and they kind of get it
more than that than the shortboard crowd
step 5 surviving wipeouts keeping the
best surfing dog is going to bite it
sometimes so you'll need a dog personal
flotation device we found this life
jacket via the school of hard knocks we
had a really bad wipeout he got sucked
under for about a minute and I thought
I'd lost the dog literally we were
surfing about a three to four foot wave
tandem surfing and we paroled and buddy
got sucked down in the kind of on the
inside surge and I couldn't find buddy
and I thought I had lost my dog and then
finally he popped up you know gasping
for air and I realized right then and
there that we could
that again we were given a one free pass
so we found this company that actually
makes life preservers PFDs if you will
for dogs and I will not take him out
without it now it's gives me an
opportunity to grab him with a web
handle and it also gives him an
additional layer of protection and
flotation which he actually appreciates
so he enjoys it he knows that it helps
him step 6 leashes dog and surfboard
leave the dog leash on the sand but what
about the leash with a board a surfboard
leash is where you control your
surfboards so you typically you have it
attached to your ankle and to the rear
of the surfboard and when you wipe out
what can happen is that it can certainly
hit somebody and be dangerous if you
haven't least to you then you can grab
your board so if we wipe out I can get
the dog back on the board for safety but
does buddy wear a leash with his
surfboards no I don't least buddy to the
board I think that just gives you one
more element of danger for the dog the
leash could get around the dog's neck
and in a wave or something and strangle
him or one of his limbs so I've seen
people do it I don't recommend it step 7
chili dog even with its fur the frigid
ocean water is going to make your hot
dog a very cold one humans wear wetsuits
dogs generally don't if you see your
pooch rolling around on the sand it's
probably to warm up so remember to towel
off your surfing bud when you get out of
the water now go ride the curl with your
serving star pub niley